# Univision Theming

This folder contains everything related to the global webapp theming, they're separated by `pageCategory` as seen in the mapping in the `index.js` file. Each folder represents one vertical and it should remain that way. If you're looking to modify colors, gradients, background images in the Navigation or headline fonts, this is the place to look for.

If you need a more through separation of theming, keep it contained in a vertical, create a new file within that vertical and add to the mapping.

Values should remain simple for performance's sake, either a `boolean` or a `string` most of the time will do or even an `Object` or `Array` with a collection of them if necessary. If you're using a helper to retrieve a value **it better be a simple operation**.

In SSR, the corresponding theme gets loaded into the `Store` and can be grabbed via selector with `themeSelector` found in `commons/src/store/selectors/page-selectors.js` or if you're using it for a styled component, it can be leveraged via the `ThemeProviderUVN` component in `commons/src/components/ThemeProvider` which is already connected to the `Store` and will automatically add a `ThemeProvider` component from `styled-components`, that way the `theme` prop gets inherited in every child component.

## Global variables

These are variables used in different places by the webapp, especially widgets, border colors and link colors. There are special cases where gradient colors are specific, there is a helper available to build the CSS string for that.

* `gradient`: String - CSS gradient to be used mostly in CTA buttons.
* `headlineFont`: Object - font family to be used in headlines, must use any of the `uvs-font` css classes.
* `isDark`: boolean - (optional) boolean flag to mark this theme to send the webapp in dark mode.
* `primary`: String - primary color of the theme, also used as the start for the legacy autogenerated gradients.
* `secondary`: String - secondary color of the theme, also used as the end color for the legacy autogenerated gradients.
* `tertiary`: String - tertiary color of the theme, used in specific cases.
* `variant`: String - dark or light - (legacy value, use `isDark` instead) default light.
* `isFooterDark`: boolean - (optional) boolean flag to mark this theme to use a dark footer.
* `tagColor`: String - (optional) tag label color in articles/slideshows etc, default `primary`.

## Navigation

These values should be used exclusively for the Navigation component:

* `isBrandedHeaderBlack`: boolean - if value is `true` then the branded header should have black background.
* `exposedNavBackgroundImages`: Object - list of background images for the exposed navigation separated by media query
  example:
  ```
  {
    xxs: 'https://st1.uvnimg.com/a2/d5/5c4914654d9b853c35d3e2f96d3f/mobile414.png',
    sm: 'https://st1.uvnimg.com/d3/00/9453fe824791b80a06431c00fccb/tablet-768.png',
    md: 'https://st1.uvnimg.com/ed/04/5e58b71c4ebdb70232fc422dae3f/tablet-1024.png',
    xl: 'https://st1.uvnimg.com/9d/56/23ac223f489dbce77e2b9bde67f7/desktop-1440.png',
  }
  ```
* `shortTitleBackgroundImages`: Object - list of background images for Short Title Navigation separated by media query
  example:
  ```
  {
    xxs: 'https://st1.uvnimg.com/a2/d5/5c4914654d9b853c35d3e2f96d3f/mobile414.png',
    sm: 'https://st1.uvnimg.com/d3/00/9453fe824791b80a06431c00fccb/tablet-768.png',
    md: 'https://st1.uvnimg.com/ed/04/5e58b71c4ebdb70232fc422dae3f/tablet-1024.png',
    xl: 'https://st1.uvnimg.com/9d/56/23ac223f489dbce77e2b9bde67f7/desktop-1440.png',
  }
  ```
* `shortTitleBackground`: String - image background URL to be used for short title
* `shortTitleGradient`: String - gradient background to be used for short title
* `subNavBackgroundColor`: String - HEX color value used for both the Exposed Navigation and Short Title components.
* `globalNavBorderTop`: String - Global Nav top border class
* `brandedHeaderLogoFill`: String - Custom logo fill color (will be deprecated in a future patch since now logos are loaded via SSR).

## Registration

Currently the registration theming has two variants, the Univision and the TUDN one. It was made in a way that it should be used as an override. If you want to modify the default values, they are located in the `commons/src/hooks/useRegistrationTheme` file

Expected values:

* `gradient`: Object - should have `start` and `end` color values.
* `primary`: string - primary color of the theme.

## Cards

Currently card theming is done with `isDark` prop, if the vertical has a light background story cards should not be dark, other wise, slide shows, video previews, soccer match cards and others should be dark.

If vertical is dark, then cards can have the `default` value set to `false`.

Expected values for light vertical under `cards` for supported content types below `isDark`:
```
{
    audio: true,
    default: false,
    externallink: true,
    podcastseries: true,
    radiostation: true,
    section: true,
    show: true,
    slideshow: true,
    soccermatch: true,
    video: true,
    videoInline: false,
}
```
